MFA docs for config endpoints (#14302)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/api-docs/secret/identity/mfa/duo.mdx

---
layout: api
page_title: /identity/mfa/method/duo - HTTP API
description: >-
  The '/identity/mfa/method/duo' endpoint focuses on managing Duo MFA behaviors in Vault.
---

## Configure Duo MFA Method

This endpoint defines an MFA method of type Duo.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- |:-------------------------------|
| `POST` | `/identity/mfa/method/duo/:id` |

### Parameters

- `id` `(string: "")` - Optional UUID to specify if updating an existing method.

- `mount_accessor` `(string: <required>)` - The mount to tie this method to for use in automatic mappings. The mapping will use the Name field of Aliases associated with this mount as the username in the mapping.

> - `username_format` `(string)` - A format string for mapping Identity names to MFA method names. Values to substitute should be placed in `{{}}`. For example, `"{{alias.name}}@example.com"`. If blank, the Alias's Name field will be used as-is. Currently-supported mappings:

Reviewer: I'm not really sure what `MFA method names` means in this context, I know we're using ids not names on the `identity/mfa/method..` endpoints. My understanding is that it maps to the username of the MFA user on the actual MFA setup they're using, so like okta email, duo name etc. Would maybe a couple words around what `mfa method names` means be helpful to disambiguate that ?
( also should the thing that `username_format` maps to, be different for the different auth types ? like for okta its an email, for duo i assume something else etc. )

Reviewer 2: As for the second question, yes. As far as I know, okta works primarily with emails, but duo accepts common usernames (like the ones we configure in userpass mount in vault) as well.

Reviewer: gotcha, thnx for the clarification!

Author: I'll be honest - I copied most of the verbiage for Duo/PingID/Okta/TOTP from the existing MFA documentation, since the majority of the functionality is identical. I see what you mean though. I'll try to disambiguate this as best I can.

Reviewer: that'd be awesome! yeap i saw this was also the language in the existing sys/mfa docs, i had the same confusions on those too tbh so figured i'd ask the q here.

  - alias.name: The name returned by the mount configured via the `mount_accessor` parameter
  - entity.name: The name configured for the Entity
  - alias.metadata.`<key>`: The value of the Alias's metadata parameter
  - entity.metadata.`<key>`: The value of the Entity's metadata parameter

- `secret_key` `(string)` - Secret key for Duo.

- `integration_key` `(string)` - Integration key for Duo.

- `api_hostname` `(string)` - API hostname for Duo.

> - `push_info` `(string)` - Push information for Duo.

Reviewer: Push information seems a bit vague but also I have not looked at how a Duo setup looks like exactly, would a couple words around what this field should be exactly make sense ? Also, are some of these fields required ? I see only mount_accessor is, but i imagine I couldn't tie that mount to an mfa method without some of these other fields.

Reviewer 2: As far as I know, some of these information is required by the third party code. I don't how they are used and what are their impact on MFA unfortunately. It would be good to test those, but I would assume that they have lower priority.

Reviewer: ah ok, in that case i'll not bother with exactly what push_info should be for testing, for now at least. thnx!!

```

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/identity/mfa/method/duo/4194659f-139b-400b-b5dd-86bfb726759d
```

## Read Duo MFA Method

This endpoint queries the MFA configuration of Duo type for a given method
ID.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- |:-------------------------------|
| `GET`  | `/identity/mfa/method/duo/:id` |

### Parameters

- `id` `(string: <required>)` – UUID of the MFA method.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request GET \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/identity/mfa/method/duo/4194659f-139b-400b-b5dd-86bfb726759d

```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "api_hostname": "api-2b5c39f5.duosecurity.com",
    "id": "4194659f-139b-400b-b5dd-86bfb726759d",
    "integration_key": "BIACEUEAXI20BNWTEYXT",
    "mount_accessor": "auth_userpass_1793464a",
    "pushinfo": "",
    "secret_key": "8C7THtrIigh2rPZQMbguugt8IUftWhMRCOBzbuyz",
    "type": "duo",
    "username_format": "",
    "use_passcode": false
  }
}
```

## Delete Duo MFA Method

> This endpoint deletes a Duo MFA method.

Reviewer 2: would it be worth it to mention that one can delete an MFA method only if the method is not used in any login enforcement configuration?

Author: Yeah, good idea.

---
layout: api
page_title: /identity/mfa/method/duo - HTTP API
description: >-
  The '/identity/mfa/method/duo' endpoint focuses on managing Duo MFA behaviors in Vault.
---

## Configure Duo MFA Method

This endpoint defines an MFA method of type Duo.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- |:-------------------------------|
| `POST` | `/identity/mfa/method/duo/:id` |

### Parameters

- `id` `(string: "")` - Optional UUID to specify if updating an existing method.

> - `mount_accessor` `(string: <required>)` - The mount to tie this method to for use in automatic mappings. The mapping will use the Name field of Aliases associated with this mount as the username in the mapping.

Reviewer: It might be worth calling out that this mount can be in the current or a child namespace, here and on the other methods ( found out as part of testing that the latter is possible, hence figured i'd drop this note )

Author: I didn't realize this was the case. I can add a note.

Author: https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14302/commits/7e004097edec2e5c0bdb0e5507ad4272c7d5ba66

- `username_format` `(string)` - A format string for mapping Identity names to MFA methods. Values to substitute should be placed in `{{}}`. For example, `"{{alias.name}}@example.com"`. If blank, the Alias's Name field will be used as-is. Currently-supported mappings:

  - alias.name: The name returned by the mount configured via the `mount_accessor` parameter
  - entity.name: The name configured for the Entity
  - alias.metadata.`<key>`: The value of the Alias's metadata parameter
  - entity.metadata.`<key>`: The value of the Entity's metadata parameter

> - `secret_key` `(string)` - Secret key for Duo.

Reviewer: I did want to follow up once about required fields, I kinda forgot to from my last set of comments. Should we call out more fields as `required` here?
So for Duo, I see that secret_key, api_hostname and integration_key are required.
For TOTP, it'd be issuer, period and algorithm.
For PingID, it'd be settings_file_base64. And for Okta, org_name and api_token. ( Or at least, that's my understanding from having used the apis, i could be wrong on the specifics tho, but wanted to raise the question )

Author: Yeah, good call.

Author: So for some of these, e.g. TOTP `period` and `algorithm`, there's a default. I will probably omit required for those, since there's a default, and I can't find any other instances in our docs of a place where there's a required field that also includes a default. Does that seem ok? If you can find examples of required fields with defaults in our docs, I'm happy to copy whatever format is being used.

Author: Also for Okta, I'm assuming `api_token`, `base_url` and `org_name` are all required?

Author: https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14302/commits/ccd156122ebd8df6e19795bdb2d8318b46f337ed

Reviewer: ohh I didn't realize those had defaults, in that case it totally makes sense to just leave as is!

---
layout: api
page_title: /identity/mfa/method/duo - HTTP API
description: >-
  The '/identity/mfa/method/duo' endpoint focuses on managing Duo MFA behaviors in Vault.
---

## Configure Duo MFA Method

This endpoint defines an MFA method of type Duo.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- |:-------------------------------|
| `POST` | `/identity/mfa/method/duo/:id` |

### Parameters

- `id` `(string: "")` - Optional UUID to specify if updating an existing method.

- `mount_accessor` `(string: <required>)` - The mount to tie this method to for use in automatic mappings. The mapping

>   will use the Name field of Aliases associated with this mount as the username in the mapping. Note that this can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
uses the Name field of Aliases associated with this mount as the username in the mapping. This can
```

  be from the current namespace or a child namespace.

> - `username_format` `(string)` - A format string for mapping Identity names to MFA methods. Values to substitute should be placed in `{{}}`. For example, `"{{alias.name}}@example.com"`. If blank, the Alias's Name field will be used as-is. Currently-supported mappings:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `username_format` `(string)` - A format string for mapping Identity names to MFA methods. Values to substitute should be placed in `{{}}`. For example, `"{{alias.name}}@example.com"`. If blank, the Alias's Name field is used as-is. Currently-supported mappings:
```

```

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/identity/mfa/method/duo/4194659f-139b-400b-b5dd-86bfb726759d
```

## Read Duo MFA Method

This endpoint queries the MFA configuration of Duo type for a given method
ID.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- |:-------------------------------|
| `GET`  | `/identity/mfa/method/duo/:id` |

### Parameters

- `id` `(string: <required>)` – UUID of the MFA method.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request GET \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/identity/mfa/method/duo/4194659f-139b-400b-b5dd-86bfb726759d

```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "api_hostname": "api-2b5c39f5.duosecurity.com",
    "id": "4194659f-139b-400b-b5dd-86bfb726759d",
    "integration_key": "BIACEUEAXI20BNWTEYXT",
    "mount_accessor": "auth_userpass_1793464a",
    "pushinfo": "",
    "secret_key": "8C7THtrIigh2rPZQMbguugt8IUftWhMRCOBzbuyz",
    "type": "duo",
    "username_format": "",
    "use_passcode": false
  }
}
```

## Delete Duo MFA Method

> This endpoint deletes a Duo MFA method. Note that MFA methods can only be deleted if they're not currently in use

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This endpoint deletes a Duo MFA method. MFA methods can only be deleted if they're not currently in use
```
